Hardware specification

Note: The following hardware specifications are provided here as a
  general reference; differences with the product may exist.

Scope of delivery

Standard delivery for an

rc_viscore

 includes

   rc_viscore sensor,

   Calibration grid large (A3),

   2 x 10 m gigabit ethernet network cables,

   10 m power cable with M12 connector and one open end,

   Quickstart guide.

The full manual is online available in digital form at

http://doc.rc-viscore.com

.

Note: The following items are not included in the delivery unless
  otherwise specified:

  Couplings, adapters, mounts,

  Power supply unit and fuses.

  Please refer to

  Accessories

   for suggested third-party cable vendors.

The following picture shows the important parts of the

rc_viscore

 which are referenced later in the documentation.


Technical specification

The technical specification of the

rc_viscore

 is shown in

Table 1

. The given depth image frame rate can be reached on an

rc_cube

 or with the SGM®producer on a computer with an Nvidia RTX2070 GPU.
Higher frame rates (up to 9 Hz) are possible with faster graphics
cards.

Technical specifications of the rc_viscore        rc_viscore
210m-16-12M-H1-R  Image resolution  4112 x 3008 pixels monochrome
Framerate  9 Hz  Focal length  16 mm  Field of view  Horizontal:
47.5°, Vertical: 35.7°  Depth image  4112 x 3008 pixel (Full) @ 2.8 Hz
(Nvidia RTX2070)  2056 x 1504 pixel (High) @ 4.6 Hz (Nvidia RTX2070)
1028 x 752 pixel (Medium) @ 9 Hz (Nvidia RTX2070)  686 x 502 pixel
(Low) @ 9 Hz (Nvidia RTX2070)  Cooling  Passive  Baseline  210 mm
Size (W x H x L)  262 mm x 204 mm x 82 mm  Mass  1.64 kg

The depth image range of the

rc_viscore

 depends on the depth image quality, the specified maximum depth range
and the available GPU memory. Depth ranges at closer distance are much
smaller than depth ranges at far distances. The

rc_cube

 uses 3.4 Gbytes of GPU memory for stereo matching.

Table 2

 shows examples of resulting depth ranges with this amount of GPU
memory. Larger depth ranges are possible by using the SGM®producer
with a graphics card that offers more GPU memory.

Examples of possible depth ranges of the rc_viscore with 3.4 Gbytes of
GPU memory as in case of the rc_cube        rc_viscore
210m-16-12M-H1-R  Full depth quality  0.89 m to 1.00 m  1.60 m to 2.00
m  2.18 m to 3.00 m  2.65 m to 4.00 m  High depth quality  0.52 m to
1.00 m  0.66 m to 2.00 m  0.75 m to 3.00 m  0.80 m to 4.00 m  1.00 m
to infinity  Medium and low depth quality  0.52 m to infinity

The resolution and accuracy at different distances is given in

Table 3

 for the recommended high depth quality. In full depth quality, the
resolution and accuracy will be better by a factor of 2. Similarly, in
medium quality, the resolution and accuracy will be about 2 times
worse than shown in the table.

Resolution and accuracy of the rc_viscore in millimeters with high
quality stereo matching and random dot projection on non-reflective
and non-transparent objects.          distance  rc_viscore  Lateral
resolution  1.0 m  2.0 m  3.0 m  4.0 m  0.4 mm  0.9 mm  1.3 mm  1.7 mm
Depth resolution  1.0 m  2.0 m  3.0 m  4.0 m  0.1 mm  0.5 mm  1.2 mm
2.0 mm  Average depth accuracy  1.0 m  2.0 m  3.0 m  4.0 m  0.5 mm
2.0 mm  4.6 mm  8.2 mm


CAD models of the

rc_viscore

 can be downloaded from

http://www.roboception.com/download

. The CAD models are provided as-is, with no guarantee of correctness.

Environmental and operating conditions

The

rc_viscore

 is designed for industrial applications. Always respect the storage,
transport, and operating environmental conditions outlined in

Table 4

.

Environmental conditions        rc_viscore  Storage/Transport
temperature  -20 °C to 60 °C  Operating temperature  0 °C to 45 °C
(passive cooling)  Relative humidity (non condensing)  20 % to 80 %
Protection class  IP54  Others  Free from corrosive liquids or gases
Free from explosive liquids or gases  Free from powerful
electromagnetic interference

The

rc_viscore

 is designed for an operating temperature (surrounding environment) of
0 °C to 45 °C and relies on convective (passive) cooling. Unobstructed
airflow, especially around the cooling fins, needs to be ensured
during use. The

rc_viscore

 should only be mounted using the provided mechanical mounting
interface, and all parts of the housing must remain uncovered. A free
space of at least 10 cm extending in all directions from the housing,
and sufficient air exchange with the environment is required to ensure
adequate cooling. Cooling fins must be free of dirt and other
contamination.

Power-supply specifications

The

rc_viscore

 needs to be supplied by a DC voltage source. The

rc_viscore

's standard package does not include a DC power supply. Each

rc_viscore

 must be connected to a separate power supply. Connection to domestic
grid power is only allowed through a power supply certified as EN55011
Class B.

Absolute maximum ratings for power supply            Min  Nominal  Max
Supply voltage  22.0 V  24 V  26.0 V  Max power consumption      48 W
Overcurrent protection  Supply must be fuse-protected to a maximum of
2 A  EMC compliance  see Electronical and safety standards\:(Section
\ref{standards:sect-standards})

Warning: Exceeding maximum power rating values may lead to damage of
  the

  rc_viscore

  , power supply, and connected equipment.

Warning: A separate power supply must power each

  rc_viscore

  .

Warning: Connection to domestic grid power is allowed through a
  power supply certified as EN55011 Class B only.

Wiring

The

rc_viscore

 is delivered with a sync cable already connected between projector
and cameras. It is the customer’s responsibility to connect the two
provided M12 X-coded network cables to the left and right camera, as
well as the power cable with an angled M12 connector to the projector
(see

Fig. 4

). The network cables must be clipped into the cable guide for strain
relief. All cables must be secured to the mounting bracket.


Warning: Due to the voltage drop, the maximum power cable length is
  limited to 15 m. The supply voltage should be set to the specified
  24 V and must not be set above 26 V due to the highly variable
  current draw of the

  rc_viscore

  .

Warning: Proper cable management is mandatory. Cabling must always
  be secured to the

  rc_viscore

   mount with a strain-relief clamp so that no forces due to cable
  movements are exerted on the

  rc_viscore

  's M12 connectors. Enough slack needs to be provided to allow for
  full range of movement of the

  rc_viscore

   without straining the cable. The cable's minimum bend radius (i.e.
  R_{min} = 15 d) needs to be observed.

Pin assignments for the power connector are given in

Table 6

.

Pin assignments for the power connector          Pin  Cable Color
Designation  Details  1  White  nc    2  Brown  Power +24 V  2 A @ 24
V  3  Green  nc    4  Yellow  nc    5  Grey  GPIO Vcc  5-24 V, 50 mA
max.  6  Pink  GPIO Out 1  Projector exposure signal  7  Blue  Power
GND    8  Red  GPIO Out 2

GPIOs are decoupled by photocouplers.

GPIO Out 1

 by default provides an exposure sync signal with a logic high level
for the duration of the image exposure. Pins of unused GPIOs should be
left floating. GPIO circuitry and specifications are shown in

Fig. 5

.


Coordinate frames

The

rc_viscore

's coordinate-frame origin is defined as the exit pupil of the left
camera lens. This frame is called sensor coordinate frame or camera
coordinate frame. It is shown in

Fig. 6

.


Note: The correct offset between the sensor/camera frame and a robot
  coordinate frame can be calibrated through hand-eye calibration. See

  https://doc.rc-cube.com/latest/en/handeye_calibration.html

  .
